{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\cname textColor;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 From: Rusty Keith <rustykeith.lyme@gmail.com>\
Subject: Lyme's CU Summary Report\
Date: March 2, 2020 at 11:57:21 AM EST\
To: Chris Ramsden <NHRAMSDEN@GMAIL.com>, Jennifer Boylston <boylstonj@gmail.com>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Thought you might be interested to see this report. \'a0\
\
It is a listing of all the CU property in Lyme. I tried to group the multiple properties owned by the same family. Can\'92t be sure I have them all because of the multiple names used as owners.\
I think it is pretty self explanatory by the col. headings.\
The circular math can be confusing in that these discounts lower the total town value (by $78,749,750) which increases the tax rate we all pay on our assessed property value. \'a0To calculate the actual tax transferred for each parcel, you have to use the base tax rate before the CU discounts or the total appraised value of the town as the denominator. The $22.19 comes from my tax rate breakdown spreadsheet. Then we have to account for the fact that the $5 per 1,000 cost of CU in Lyme is paid by these property owners as well (next to last col.), $763,463 of the total $1,747,270. So the last col. is the net tax transfer per property (or Family). When that number is red (mostly the last three pages), the $5 cost for CU in Town exceeds the tax benefit of the enrolled land for that property.\
\
Too much???\
\
No one in this town has any idea the depth of impact we have here.\
99% of which is no longer needed or relevant since the adoption of zoning in Lyme.\
Taxpayers no longer need to \'93encourage\'94 large landowners not to develop their property. \'a0They can\'92t under our strict zoning ordinance. Yet on we pay.\
\
Rusty\
\
\
\
\
}